# Financial-Markets
A short essay on United Nations Human Rights Council's 2017 report on the Financialization of Housing.
https://www.ohchr.org/en/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=21264&LangID=E
## Financialization of Housing

The statement by the special rapporteur, Leilani Farha during the interactive dialogue at the Human Rights Council paints a miserable picture of the financialization of housing and its implications for the right to adequate housing. It is further describes on how the housing sector has been transformed into a financial vehicle for investment, assuming that financialization only has a negative impact on human rights and the right to adequate housing by undermining democratic governance, exacerbating inequality and social exclusion, dehumanizing housing when bought and sold as a commodity among few others. I disagree with the report in the sense that financialization has brought about major changes in the society and continues to do so, housing being no different.

However, financialization of housing does have its merits also, considering how financialization and financial products, in general, have brought positive impact in the society. For example, purchasing an insurance on your house against fire or flood or some other natural calamity. Securitization of housing sector has also attracted capital to financial markets and availability of financial products concerning housing to a larger number of investors. The housing market is open to private equity, HNI, FPI and corporate investors, which helps keep fiscal deficit under check and increases investments, but at the same time escalates housing prices. It is common notion that housing prices always seem to be on the rise in the long term, but on the contrary home prices tend to show a strong tendency to return to their 1890 level in real terms.

One can also argue about commodities such as wheat, coffee, sugar, cotton being traded on the exchange when there is poverty around the world disregarding basic human rights to food. On the contrary, exchanges and trading of such commodities has proven beneficial to farmers who get fair value for their product. Buying futures of such commodities also protect against price fluctuations while speculation helps ward off shortages preventing price spikes and uniform rationing of resources. These speculators also act financers to prevent stockpiling against shortages. Speculation of commodities tends to guard against market manipulation. By financialization of the housing sector, manipulation of home prices has become rather difficult or a costly affair to pull off. This is because in an efficient market, with a healthy number of speculators it is much harder to manipulate prices and also attempting a move becomes costly.

Another benefit of financialization is accessibility of products to a large number of investors, who might be unable to purchase a lot of land physically. It also offers high liquidity of such asset classes, so people are quickly able to get in and out of trades.

However, the main concern of housing being treated as a commodity cannot be ignored when the unprivileged or weaker economic sections of the society who are unable to cope with the rising costs of housing. I feel that there should be some sort of regulation by the government to provide subsidized or affordable housing. The prices of products in housing sector must have some sort of collective index tied to various other markers in the economy to prevent spikes in home prices.
